Bocing Model 737 Series Airplanes
Page 2 of 8
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen Oshiro. Aerospace
Engineer, Systems and Equipment Branch, ANM-130S, FAA, Seattle Aircraft
Certification Office. 1601 Lind Avenue, SW. Renton, Washington 98055-4056;
telephone (425) 227-2793. fax (425) 227-1181.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal
Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) to include an airworthiness directive (AD)
that is applicable to certain Boeing Model 737 series airplanes was published as a
supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) in the Federal Register on
June 5, 2001 (66 FR 30114). That action proposed to require inspection of wire
bundles in four junction boxes in the main wheel well to detect chafing or damage,
and follow-on actions.
Comments
Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making
of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received.
One commenter concurs with the proposed rule: another commenter indicates
that it is already accomplishing the proposed inspections and has no further
comments.
Extend Compliance Time
One commenter asks that we extend the compliance time for the proposed
requirements from 12 to 18 months after the effective date of the AD. The
commenter states that the 12-month compliance time is not a sufficient amount of
time to perform the inspection (check) during its 737 fleet 'C-check cycle. The
assessment was based on the amount of
operational testing that would have to be performed on the systems that would be
disturbed by the proposed inspections and modifications. The commenter
recommends the compliance time be extended to 18 months to
ensure the inspection may be accomplished during a scheduled maintenance
visit
The FAA agrees to extend the compliance time for the inspection to 18 months. In
developing an appropriate compliance time for the inspection required by the final
rule, we considered not only the degree of urgency associated with addressing
the unsafe condition, but the practical aspect of accomplishing the inspection of
the wire bundles on the Model 737 fleet in a timely manner. It is our intent in this
final rule to allow the inspections to be done within the time
frame of a regular maintenance interval. We took the commenter's
recommendations into account, as well as the time necessary to do the specified
actions. and we find that an 18-month compliance time should correspond with
the regular maintenance schedules of the majority of affected operators. An
extension of the compliance time to 18 months will not adversely affect safety.
Paragraph (a) of the final rule has been changed accordingly.