spiceJet
Engineering Order
DATE
REGN
STATION
WORK ORDER NO.
TASK NO./PAGE
SCHEDULE
ENGINEERING
ITEM
ORDER NO.
SP EO-01-57-504R2
STEP
TASK
NAME
IDENTIFICATION
QTY
MORE DATA
(g) After closing the blowout door and fuel shutoff valve access door, while the form-in-place gasket sealant
is still wet, remove the sealant from the gaps between the edges of both doors and the surrounding structure,
except for the area shown in View B and the aft edge of the fuel shutoff valve access door at this time; wait
for the sealant to dry.
(h) Manufacture a form-in-place gasket. Apply sealant smooth and fiat at the fay surface of the door surround.
After the door has latched close, continue to press up on the door with the same force used to latch the door.
Continue this pressure for 15 seconds to allow full squeeze out of all the excess sealant. Do not press up with
more force than required to latch the door or voids will be created in the form-in-place gasket and fail the leak
test. After the sealant dries, cycle the fuel shutoff valve access door to break it free from the sealant. It may
be necessary to use a skin wedge to break the door free. After cycling the door, the door should open without
assistance. Make sure that the sealant bonds to the door structure and not the fuel shutoff valve access door.
Refer to SOPM 20-50-19 as an accepted procedure. Petrolatum or Krytox may be applied to the doors as a
post-cure lubricant. If petrolatum is applied to the doors after the sealant has cured, it must be wiped off with
a lint-free rag leaving behind a thin film. if Krytox is used, it does not have to be wiped off.
(i) Remove any sealant adhering to the doors and inspect the sealing surface in the door surround structure;
small gaps or depressions of 1/4x1/8 inch in the form-in-place gasket are acceptable provided that they do not
extend across the sealing surface from one side to the other. Use a plastic scraper to trim off any sealant that
extends beyond the door openings.
(j) Remove the strip of sealant from the crevice at the aft edge of the fuel shutoff valve access door immediately
forward of the skin panel.
(k) It is only necessary to re-apply the sealant if the sealant was damaged in this area during the removal of
the gasket and parting agent. Allow the sealant in the machine gap to fully cure before applying the faying
surface sealant. Refer to SOPM 20-50-19 as an accepted procedure
(I) Petrolatum that meets VV-P-236 specifications is an acceptable substitute for Frekote 710-NC. Apply a thin
and continuous coat of Petrolatum to the interior door surface.
FIGURE 20: RIGHT WING - BLOWOUT DOOR AND FUEL SHUTOFF VALVE ACCESS DOOR - SEALANT
APPLICATION
(SHEET 4 OF 4)
SpiceJet FLEET EFFECTIVITY
ALL
Page 75 of 90
Procedure Ref.: GEP-05
Form No. TSD / 036R1