Boeing Model 737, 747, 757, and 767 Series Airplanes
Page 3 of 7
bulletins. However, the effectivity of these service bulletin revisions has been
revised to add certain airplanes equipped with IPECO manually operated (non-
powered) flight deck seats, and to delete airplanes on which IPECO non-powered
flight deck seats are not installed.
Explanation of Requirements of Rule
Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on
other airplanes of this same type design, this AD supersedes AD 97-15-06 to
continue to require a one- time operational test of the pilots' seat locks and the
seat tracks to ensure that the seats lock in position and the seat tracks are aligned
correctly: and re-alignment of the seat tracks, if necessary. This amendment
revises the applicability of the existing AD to add certain airplanes and to remove
others.
Determination of Rule's Effective Date
Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it
is
found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are
impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in
less than 30 days.
Comments Invited
Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements
affecting flight safety and thus. was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for
public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited
to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as
they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be
submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption "ADDRESSES."
All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be
considered. and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received.
Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is
extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining
whether additional rulemaking action would be needed.
Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory. economic,
environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to
modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after
the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested
persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the
substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket.
Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments
submitted in response to this rule must submit a self-addressed. stamped
postcard on which the following statement is made: "Comments to Docket
Number 97-NM-334-AD." The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the
commenter.
Regulatory Impact
http://rgl.faa.gov/Regulatory_and_Guidance_Library/rgAD.nsf/0/824E7954F34495E686..
11/18/2013