AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVE
FINAL
STATES
OMINIST
SILON
Aircraft Certification Service
U.S. Department
Washington, DC
of Transportation
Federal Aviation
Administration
We post ADs on the internet at "av-info.faa.gov"
The following Airworthiness Directive issued by the Federal Aviation Administration in accordance with the provisions of Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR) part 39.
applies to an aircraft model of which our records indicate you may be the registered owner Airworthiness Directives affect aviation safety and are regulations which require immediate
attention You are cautioned that no person may operate an aircraft to which an Airworthiness Directive applies except in accordance with the requirements of the Airworthiness
Directive (reference 14 CFR part 39 subpart 39 3)
2002-04-08 Boeing: Amendment 39-12665. Docket 2001-NM-37-AD.
Applicability: Model 737-600, -700, -700C, and -800 series airplanes; line numbers 1 through
295 inclusive; certificated in any category.
Note 1: This AD applies to each airplane identified in the preceding applicability provision,
regardless of whether it has been modified. altered, or repaired in the area subject to the requirements
of this AD. For airplanes that have been modified, altered, or repaired SO that the performance of the
requirements of this AD is affected, the owner/operator must request approval for an alternative
method of compliance in accordance with paragraph (b) of this AD. The request should include an
assessment of the effect of the modification, alteration, or repair on the unsafe condition addressed by
this AD: and, if the unsafe condition has not been eliminated. the request should include specific
proposed actions to address it.
Compliance: Required as indicated. unless accomplished previously.
To prevent loss of free movement of the rudder pedals, which could result in reduced
controllability of the airplane, accomplish the following:
Replacement of Fasteners
(a) Within 12 months after the effective date of this AD, do a one-time general visual inspection
of the fasteners on the upper cover assembly of the housing for the captain's and first officer's rudder
pedals to determine if pan-head fasteners are installed, according to Boeing Alert Service Bulletin
737-25A1383. Revision 1, dated December 2, 1999. Replace all pan-head fasteners on the upper
cover assembly of the housing for the captain's and first officer's rudder pedals with improved (flush-
head) fasteners. including countersink-drilling the fastener holes. according to the service bulletin.
Note 2: For the purposes of this AD. a general visual inspection is defined as: "A visual
examination of an interior or exterior area, installation, or assembly to detect obvious damage,
failure. or irregularity. This level of inspection is made under normally available lighting conditions
such as daylight, hangar lighting, flashlight, or drop-light, and may require removal or opening of
access panels or doors. Stands, ladders, or platforms may be required to gain proximity to the area
being checked."
Alternative Methods of Compliance
(b) An alternative method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance time that provides an
acceptable level of safety may be used if approved by the Manager. Seattle Aircraft Certification
Office (ACO). FAA. Operators shall submit their requests through an appropriate FAA Principal
Maintenance Inspector, who may add comments and then send it to the Manager, Seattle ACO.
4